## What is an Out-of-Bounds Read Error?
An Out-of-bounds Read error describes when a weakness in code allows the user to read information outside of the scope of what was intended. This issue is prevalent in both C and C++ and is most commonly caused by the coder not making sure that every call to find something at a specific index is bounded correctly. 
This can happen for many reasons, one of the most common causes for this is that the user misjudges how many times they will need to cycle through an index and increments through it one too many times. This causes the search function to try to pull something from a location in the index that does not exist. When this happens the search, function returns the data that was in the memory location of the imaginary index which can lead to unintended information being returned to the user.

## Why Does This Matter?
There are multiple reasons as to why you should make sure you write code that does not allow Out-of-Bounds Reads. The first that it may read data that is of a type that it could not handle. If you are pulling a number from an array but read from out of bounds you may have a ‘Char’ value returned. If that were the case it would be possible for your function that adds 15 to the value read from the array to fail due to it not being able to add ‘x’ + ‘15’. 
Another reason that having Out-of-Bounds Reads contributes to weakness in code is that it allows the user to see ‘behind the scenes. If a function is supposed to display an element from an array and the user is able to read outside of the array it is possible for them to piece together code from the responses it is getting. This would lead to them being more likely to be able to exploit vulnerabilities as they understand how your code functions. 

## How Can You Mitigate this Issue? 
The most basic and important thing that you can do to prevent these errors from occurring is making sure that you have checked all of the logic on your loops to confirm that they do not increment out of bounds. On top of this if you are asking for user input and that input will have an effect on where you are reading from you may want to whitelist the values that you will accept so that you can confirm you are get a functional value.  A final way that you can prevent requires you discussing the possibility in the planning phase. You can choose to write your program in a language that has functions that allow for memory abstractions. These languages can take care of these issues and allow you to focus on other things. 

For more examples of this weakness and further information visit: <https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/125.html>
