Welcome to the second and final tutorial lesson. In this lesson you will learn about completing challenges. Challenges are always coding problems, that can cover one to multiple CWE's depending on the challenge type. Challenges can also be in different languages, however each unit will utilize the same language. This is displayed in the unit overview. Each lesson in a unit will teach you about a specific CWE, the challenge for that lesson will contain an example of the CWE that you must fix. When you believe that you have completed the challenge and patched the vulnerability, you can click the submit code button. This will check your given solution to insure it is correct. If it is, a congratulations message will appear, if not you may recieve one to multiple hints about where you should be looking. These hints are general and will not give you the answer however, they might help you if you are feeling stuck. A final challenge will be similar in almost every regard except length and difficulty. A final challenge is meant to be a capstone for the unit and will most likely contain multiple vulnerabilities that were discussed in that unit's lesson hidden in the code. Your task is the same, patch the vulnerabilities and submit your code.

The challenge for this lesson is to write a "hello world" program or a viable equivelant. You must write a program that outputs a string, this string can be "hello world" or some other string of your choosing. We are only looking for some string to be the output (hint: just one print statement). Once you complete this you will have finished our tutorial unit, and may move on to our other material. 
